@article{VERNER201454,
title = "Risks and risk mitigation in global software development: A tertiary study",
journal = "Information and Software Technology",
volume = "56",
number = "1",
pages = "54 - 78",
year = "2014",
note = "Special sections on International Conference on Global Software Engineering – August 2011 and Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering – April 2012",
issn = "0950-5849",
doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2013.06.005",
url = "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584913001341",
author = "J.M. Verner and O.P. Brereton and B.A. Kitchenham and M. Turner and M. Niazi",
keywords = "Global software development, Systematic literature review, Tertiary review, Risk, Risk mitigation, Evidence",
abstract = "Context There is extensive interest in global software development (GSD) which has led to a large number of papers reporting on GSD. A number of systematic literature reviews (SLRs) have attempted to aggregate information from individual studies.
Objective
We wish to investigate GSD SLR research with a focus on discovering what research has been conducted in the area and to determine if the SLRs furnish appropriate risk and risk mitigation advice to provide guidance to organizations involved with GSD.
Method
We performed a broad automated search to identify GSD SLRs. Data extracted from each study included: (1) authors, their affiliation and publishing venue, (2) SLR quality, (3) research focus, (4) GSD risks, (5) risk mitigation strategies and, (6) for each SLR the number of primary studies reporting each risk and risk mitigation strategy.
Results
We found a total of 37 papers reporting 24 unique GSD SLR studies. Major GSD topics covered include: (1) organizational environment, (2) project execution, (3) project planning and control and (4) project scope and requirements. We extracted 85 risks and 77 risk mitigation advice items and categorized them under four major headings: outsourcing rationale, software development, human resources, and project management. The largest group of risks was related to project management. GSD outsourcing rationale risks ranked highest in terms of primary study support but in many cases these risks were only identified by a single SLR.
Conclusions
The focus of the GSD SLRs we identified is mapping the research rather than providing evidence-based guidance to industry. Empirical support for the majority of risks identified is moderate to low, both in terms of the number of SLRs identifying the risk, and in the number of primary studies providing empirical support. Risk mitigation advice is also limited, and empirical support for these items is low."
}